hey YouTube wanted to show off my latest
pipe bomb
is the first pipe that I did start to
finish
my previous pipes I got the pre-board
blocks of briar for with this one I just
bought the brach a couple blocks of
briar on eBay then I got a bit to drill
the tobacco chamber in their hole and
bought some vulcanized stems had to size
the tenon to fit the mortise on the pipe
but I'll also show how without a lathe
or anything like that how I sized the
tenon to the right size but actually
kicking back right now smoking some
boswell Northwoods stuff is excellent
you have to get it I believe only from
Basel site but I'm not positive but it's
an English blend but really really good
well here is the pipe that I just
finished I don't know if it's showing up
in this light but there's my first start
to finish know if you can see the grain
on this the grain turned out pretty nice
what I did is I went in with the free I
think it's free rings like the leather
die I think this is light brown comes
out with a nice red tone but then I
stained the whole thing I think I gave
it three coats lighting it after each
one and then I sanded it down with 1500
grit sandpaper so that way it gives a
little more that exposed grain in there
the bowl is pretty big on this one you
can see it's just almost an inch not
good for certain tobacco's but great for
my English
nobody could of aw this is definitely a
longer type you can see it's a longer
one but in this one I'm actually my
brother is coming to town and we're
gonna go backpacking and camping for
well this next week so imma give him
this pipe but this is it my first start
to finish don't even know what you what
style this would be if anyone knows what
style I mean to me the bold looks a
little like a Dublin but I'm not sure
but then you got that really long stem
on it but that's it and see I'm working
on my second kind of from scratch from a
block I got the top turned on lathe
of course you know drilled the tobacco
chamber got the air hole drilled and
drilled in the mortise for the stem so
this one's still real work in progress
another one that I just got touched up
was this was a poker setter I did a
while back but I didn't like my texture
the texture was more just I took a
dremel and it was more just holes I
don't want to give a little more of a
texture so that's coming up I don't
think the colors really showing well in
this but that's that and it's it's nice
on the table I really like the size or
the style here oh and a quick tip on a
real low budget way to size your Tenon's
what I did I just put my tenon on a
dremel and actually I don't have the
power on but I just I kind of drilled it
in so it was really snug then at a lower
setting I think at about ten thousand
rpms I got it spinning push this on my
leg then I took a file and just took the
file and I kept filing it down because
these don't come precise you have to
size these so then I just kept the file
keeping that 90-degree edge
right here where it butts up against the
the the Brier and I just kept grinding
it down with a file then I took some
1500 grit sandpaper when it was really
close
wrap the 59 grit sandpaper around the
file and then polish it off and you can
see now that it's a really nice tight
fit I have to let's get off and here's
our so really nice tight fit
and there's not a major gap on this I
was afraid that you know I wouldn't get
it really close but you can see that the
fit in there is pretty pretty good for
doing it with a dremel tool but that's
about it I'm gonna get back to finishing
up the Northwoods and interview that are
into English blends Boswell's Northwoods
really really great smoke and thanks for
watching guys